---
layout: post
title: Services 
date:   2024-02-05 05:00:00 -0700
published: True 
---

Service List: Help Home Service Businesses Succeed Online
How LLMs can help the home services industry


Home services Electricians | Plumbing | Flooring | Appliances | Solar | HVAC | long tail of niche services


Knowledge discovery
* Online platforms made it easy for homeowners to book contractors by offloading project scoping to the pro. There’s no cost to contact services while services pay 60 USD per lead. This creates low quality leads.
* Good contractors are overbooked 1-2 weeks out and they get to choose who they want to work for – It’s not about finding work for businesses but figuring out what to work on.
* Reliability > Price. Reliable contractors can charge +50-100%. Reliability is tightly related to hiring and training, often only possible when services focus on very specific niches. Reliability is the lever for growth.
* Contractors lack tech to offer quick quotes, manage employees, schedules or billing
* Predictable demand. Preventive and inspection services are scheduled by contract and only reactive services are scheduled on demand.
* Do-it-for-me macro trend. Consumers specialize and outsource everything else.
* 90% of home services are still booked through word of mouth.


Homeowner
        Inputs Scope and budget
Online
research problem, search pros
Offline
* scope project, negotiate price, hire, complete job, final payment (days or weeks)
* The process to hire someone is messy chain of messages, phone calls, and in person visits with cost both homeowners (direct fee) and pros (opportunity cost)
* This makes it efficient to filter down relevant suppliers but you don't get to a hire now stage
* Often the homeowner doesn't know what they want so talking to service is part of the process
Hypothesis 1: 
LLMs are good at helping explore a decision space. A chatbot reduces the search space and increases matching efficiency.


Contractor tradespeople, repair and remodelers, and property managers
        Inputs Availability, Offerings 
Online
1. create website (99designs.com)
2. online booking & scheduling
3. hiring teams that are already obtaining work
4. SEO + copywriting + relevant monthly blog
5. customer service with upbeat tone
Offline
1. service calls and onsite estimates ($ and time)
pros repeat business facts, answer clarifying questions
        Hypothesis 2: 
LLMs are good at setting tone. An assistant is able to consume videos, images and to verify leads and generate estimates. This would remove the repetitive task of service calls and onsite estimates, reducing time and cost to the homeowner, and simplify decision making for the service.


Market
* 5 million home service small businesses
* Growth: 18% in 2021, 10% in 2022
* 600B/yr in home improvement
Active companies

